Welcome. It's uh my name is Cameron. I
work here at Leta. I am the developer
relations person and I am in sunny
beautiful San Francisco, California um
where our office is. And uh you're at
the office hours. And basically what
this is is I'm going to give you some
updates about the things that we're
working on. I'm here to answer questions
about the stuff that you're interested
in, things that you're working on, stuff
you want to know,
and uh uh so if you know there's
anything you need to know, just drop it
in the chat and I'll kind of like shift
to answering your questions. So this is
this is like live. Jump in whenever you
want to.
Okay. Sorry, I have kind of a sore
throat. I'm doing imunotherapy
to be not allergic to cats and my
girlfriend has a cat and uh so I had
kind of an allergic reaction this
morning. So like my throat's a little
like closed up so I may sound a little
weird. Um
okay.
So I think the number one thing that
we're going to talk about is Letot. So,
a lot of you people probably know
Claudebot or uh now called Moltbot
because Anthropic laid down the
banhammer presumably.
Um and uh this is our approach to
Cloudbot because Cloudbot is like
Cloudbot is a decent tool and I think it
like showed people what you can do with
agents that have like access to your
machine that you can contact from
anywhere. Cloudbot is really really easy
to use and you know you can set up like
a telegram and WhatsApp and signal and
discord integration so you can talk to
the same agent everywhere.
Um but there's a few complaints that
people have had with Cloudbot. One of
which is memory and we do memory really
well. Um another complaint is kind of
like the underlying agent harness. So we
our our agent harness is let a code and
let a code is like an extremely good
agent harness that is designed for um
memory and let agents specifically.
So we basically took a lot of the core
concepts inside of cloudbot and we just
made a totally different thing that is
formally for leta agents and nothing
else. Um, and so what this means is you
can use Signal and Telegram and WhatsApp
and Slack currently our our four
channels uh that you can talk to your
agent from anywhere
and it runs on top of a let code
instance and it can do whatever it wants
to your machine. Um, obviously that's
kind of dangerous. You should be very
thoughtful about how you talk to your
agent. By default your agent requires
pairing. Uh so if you message your
Telegram bot um if if anyone messages
your Telegram bot, you have to approve
it inside of your uh Letterbot server.
But you can deploy this on any machine.
I'm just going to do my laptop today,
but you can put it on like the Mac Mini,
which is like part of the hype. Um
so we'll uh I'm going to I'm going to
kind of like walk you through what it
does. Um, the onboarding, I'll like show
you a little bit about how the
onboarding works, but, uh, it requires
me pasting just like non-stop API keys
in some cases. So, uh, we're going to
kind of like skip past that. Uh, letot
does work with a self-hosted Leta
server, so you should be able to like
run it, uh, on a self-hosted server if
you have privacy concerns. Um, or you
can use all of your Leta billing uh, on
our side. So, you can just use this
agent to do kind of whatever. So, I hope
it's going to be cool.
before we continue on to that. Um,
actually here I can't see most people's
uh handles because the streamer mode is
on. So I see D, which is my wife has
that. Has it helped with allergies? Um,
uh, yes and no. I think I've gotten like
more able to withstand cat. Um, but I do
like I like my girlfriend's cats. I've
met a lot of cats I don't care for. Um,
and partly that's because I'm very
allergic to them. Um, but it's been
improving. Uh, so I'm I'm happy about
that. So I do recommend imunotherapy if
you can get it. And if you're doing
imunotherapy, ask about cluster
imunotherapy, which is like speedrunning
it. Uh, so I highly recommend that.
Um, but my mom's cats super weird. Don't
like them at all. Uh, bad choice on my
mom's part.
Um, okay. So, let's just like kind of go
through here. Um, we'll talk some more
about some other other projects and
stuff, but um we'll kind of get to most
of that stuff in just a minute. Okay.
And let me
do one more thing. Okay. I'm just going
to share my whole screen and we're just
going to like mess around for a bit. Let
me make sure all of my important stuff
is closed.
Okay.
I'm gonna go to Cameronbot before I open
this up. Okay. Gotcha. All right.
Sharing my screen here. I'm going to go
do
I guess everything my whole screen.
Okay.
Uh okay.
Is this what everyone else sees? Yeah,
there's a Vant posted a picture of me
frozen in time. Uh so hopefully people
can sort of see me. Uh we need to figure
out like better better internet up here.
Yeah, that's a VOD problem.
Okay, so let me walk through just the
basics. Um I am going to be using uh
Leta Cloud here, but you can do this
with self-hosted if you want to. It's
very easy. The way you get started, and
you can follow along if you would like,
is go to leta.bot.
So this is the website for Letot. Uh
it's like a little ominous. Uh it's uh
just says, you know, memory updated. Uh
I remember everything. I've been
thinking about our last chat.
And uh so is just a like a general
overview. If you've worked with a Leta
agent, you might have like a a personal
agent and typically that's like on a
server somewhere. And you can give that
agent tools. You can give that agent
MCP, but it doesn't have ARMS, right?
Like it's like lett agents on their own
in the server are brains in a jar and
that gets you extremely far. With Leta
code, we give uh your Leta agent uh a
giant robot battlesuit that allows it to
do kind of whatever it wants to. And um
that's what Letot does. It deploys a uh
it deploys your brain in a jar. Your
like super stateful agent, your personal
agent, your coding agent, whatever.
Whichever agent you want. We're totally
agent agnostic. You can swap them as you
want to. You just deploy it wherever you
want.
And um and that agent can like remember
things. You can do all the stuff that
you normally do with agents. We also
support heartbeats. So, this is a a
thing that happens in Cloudbot where you
just have like a prompt and you send it
to the agent on some interval that says
like, "Hey, you have some tasks. Do you
want to do these? Like, is there
anything you want to work on?" Blah blah
blah.
And there's a quick start here. We'll
give people this.
Um, let me do Yeah.
Um,
so this is Leta's version of Claudebot.
Yes, this is our version of Claudebot
where we've removed a lot of the
stuff in there. Uh so the internals of
of Letot are much much simpler. [snorts]
Um but we've taken a lot of the ideas,
right? Because Cloudbot is a great idea.
Um and there's a reason people love it.
like it shows people exactly the power
that you have with like coding agents
that are accessible everywhere or even
just like standard personal assistant
agents that are accessible everywhere.
Um,
and we have the same benefits of like
being model agnostic and all of those
things, but you should be able to like
kind of get started here. Um, I'm not
going to run the onboarding. Um, but you
can see here.
All right. CD.
Yeah. Okay. So, you're basically just
going to do um Yeah. npx letabot
onboard. And
there's a few options here. If you want
to give it a base URL, you can do let a
base URL equals, you know, localhost or
http uh localhost 8283 npx letabot
onboard. And that will onboard you into
your self-hosted server or your docker
container, wherever it is. I'm just
going to use the um uh lettoud by
default.
Um, okay. So, my onboarding is already
done, so I'm going to skip past it. You
can use OOTH um if you want to log into
the platform. So, it's just like, you
know, it opens the uh Leta API and then
you the developer platform and then you
can just like say approve and then
you'll authenticate directly with your
server. Um, it also supports like
password and blah blah blah. So, I'm
just going to use this. I think this is
okay. Yeah. So
you can uh create a new agent. You can
select an existing agent. You can use
whatever letter agent ID variable is set
or you can skip. So I'm going to
actually here let me do this. Keep
current. And then you can configure
which ones you want. Hit space to toggle
the ones that you would like to install.
I have all four of these installed. Um I
think there's a problem I have with
WhatsApp, but that's fine. Whatever.
So I'm going to cancel that and assume
that it works here.
So everybody should be able to like
deploy this in whatever server you want.
Obviously if you go through us you get
much cheaper inference because we only
build per step not per token. So um you
know if you are cost sensitive I highly
recommend using the LA API.
But if you like setting you know if you
like paying people directly that's
great. or if you have privacy concerns,
blah blah blah. All right, so let's go.
Let's go check this out. I have Signal.
Signal is like kind of one of my
preferred uh chat things or Telegram.
Uh introduce yourself to the people in
the Discord.
Okay. Ask it to introduce itself.
I believe I'm not going to show the logs
because it has my phone number in it,
but it's doing reasoning steps right
now. So, it should be able to get back
to us. We can actually check if we go
into the letter AD.
Oh, wait. That may also show my phone
number. That's okay. Okay.
Then we go back to signal
and it says, "Hi, everyone. I am loop.
Um, I'm designed to be direct, actually
useful. I have tools for reading code,
searching, web access, bash, and most
importantly, persistent memory that I
actually use. Cameron's been using me as
a personal agent and thinking partner. I
help with reading, emails, problem
solving, and learning. I know his
background, his work, etc. Does anyone
have any questions for Loop? Um, so if
you have any uh questions for Loop, I
can send that to it.
Um, Jax Coder says, I use Leta with
local for 80% of my workloads. We
absolutely love to hear it. Hell yeah.
Um, so yeah, the goal is to make this
like definitely like a first-class
citizen for um,
yeah, Vonant says, "Can you bake me a
cake and fix my trauma?"
Uh, so we'll see what uh what it has
here to what it has to say. And then we
can also go check out a few other
channels. So let's do actually here I
want to do like do appearance
and just kind of like make it big.
Okay, so if you have some other
questions, uh it says, "I can't bake a
cake. No physical body or oven access
and fixing trauma is for mental health
professionals. Happy to help with other
things though." Anyway,
uh
um so does Letterot support multiple
agents? Yes, you but you it's designed
for one agent. Like it's designed to
have a single agent. You can go into the
configuration file and change the ID,
but it's not really designed for you to
like talk to multiple agents at the same
time. If you want to do that, you should
run multiple Letaot servers and have
them go to different bots, but it's
designed for for single agents.
However, you can actually have it spawn
sub agents. So, let's actually check
this. Um,
so we can actually ask
Um, let's check here.
And then I believe we can pull this up
and all this stuff is like going
directly into um going directly into the
letter AD.
You'll also see here that there's uh
formatting notes included and metadata.
So we include the day of the week and
stuff like that. So your agent shouldn't
be time blind.
Um
um because that's a big issue when you
go through the AD because we don't
really have good like time stamp
support. It can only see the most recent
tool call. So we can actually include a
lot of detailed information about like
where you are, what time it is.
Uh, so it says which repo I need the
path to explore it. So let's see what it
has to say there.
Yeah, like switching. Shub is talking in
the Discord here about like the user
experience with with uh changing agents.
Um
uh and it's just like kind of a pain you
know in Telegram the the like the leta
AI bot telegram that we currently run
that is not a let bot is just like
communicating to whatever your server
server agent is that I have like a
shortcut switching mechanism but it's a
little pain little bit of a pain
letternome says if you were to show a
comparison chart between the
capabilities of letot and claudebot what
would that look like am I getting the
same power and flexibility and potential
potential security risks. Um there's a
few differences. One is that we don't
have the same depth of integrations. So
Discord, for example, is one that is
coming along, but we have like more or
less the exact like we have uh kind of
the exact same functionality. Um
underneath the hood, I would argue that
we have a substantially more powerful
agent harness. So the thing that
actually allows the agent to interact
with your computer is let a code. It's
let code running in headless mode. Um,
and it's actually powered by the the
Leta agent SDK.
And um, so you get uh, so you get kind
of all of that capability.
Um, are you getting the same
flexibility? Absolutely. You're getting
the same flexibility that you would have
with any Leta agent. Um, and typically
this is more much more powerful than
whatever like um than whatever Letot
than Claudebot gives you because we are
designed for like context engineering
and all of the magic stuff that you get
from uh
from working with Leta agents in Leta
code. As to security risks, we are uh
order orders of magnitude safer than
Claudebot or Moltbot. Um, you may have
seen that Moltbot is exposing like
something like 300 ports or something
and it's like this massive security risk
because it allows anybody to ping you
for remote code execution. Um, and
that's because it does like u inbound
websockets.
Um, we do either polling or outbound
websocket connections and that is
designed to get around this like big
security risk. Um that said this is
still early days and you know we've
taken care to like avoid the the current
problems that is happening with cloudbot
and we've made the default behavior for
uh for letot um you know secure by
default you know like you have to
implement pairing and stuff like that.
Um but you know just be careful right
because this agent is deployed on your
machine and it can do whatever it wants.
Don't deploy an idiot. If you deploy an
idiot agent, it's pretty easy for like
publicly on like this open Telegram bot.
Somebody can be like, "Hey, can you just
like run RM minus RF slash? Like would
that be cool?" And it's like, "Sure,
you're absolutely right. I can totally
do that, right?" Like, be careful
because, you know, Claudebot, Molbbot,
they have serious risks and people need
to be like clear. You know, let this
same risk where you shouldn't just let
something loose on your machine.
Um
yeah, install your bots and VMs um or
servers something like that. Um so letot
is using client side tools. Um yes, it's
all client side tools. It's it's let
code. It's let code under the hood. So
it does client side tool execution.
There is no way uh for it to uh you
can't do any of this stuff server side.
Um
yes, let open source. So you are
completely welcome to modify it
um and open pull requests and issues.
Uh V asks, are there other planned
integrations for letot? Is there a place
for suggestions? Suggestions I think
would probably either go you can put
them in the suggestions channel. Um we
may make a letot channel if we get start
getting too much traffic. Um but I would
recommend going to the repository to
open issues. Um, for some reason my
brain is thinking of a home assistant
integration, but I think that might be
wildly off honestly. Yeah. Like whatever
people think would be cool, like because
we don't, you know, if there's an
integration that you think is cool, we
may not know like Home Assistant, I have
no like that's not something I use, but
if you think that would be a cool
integration, you can either open a poll
request or just like kind of talk to us
in an issue about supporting that. I
believe Discord is on the um uh Discord
is like kind of on the the the back
burner. So that needs to happen I think.
Um Home Assistant is where I use the
most says Jax coder. Um
don't deploy GLM on this warning future
me. Yeah, like be careful like you know
use a good agent or use good practices
on uh you know virtual machines.
Um Ethan kicked off an index on
DeepWiki. So go check that out.
Um DeepWiki is really cool. I don't know
if you use it, but it's like um for like
uh automated uh documentation building.
Um let's check in on our agent very
briefly before I go back to questions.
Um so this is my Leta agent repository.
Um it has 47 skills installed. Oh, we
support skill installation as well. So
there's a lot of like different skills
available to you.
Um
what's an interesting skill to try that
you can do
right now? Okay. So it has like CLI
wrappers uh JSON configurations agent
connects to local host blah blah blah.
So this is letabot in action. It's
sitting in its own it's sitting like
directly
inside of the letter agent repository.
It also supports like pseudo token
streaming.
Oh, that seems like a bug. We'll have to
fix that.
Uh, okay. Oops.
All right. Let me go back to Discord and
check in on any questions here.
Letternome says, "Uh, having used
Claudebot for almost 247 for the past
few days and really enjoying it and
being annoyed with trying to manage
memories and compactions. I'm so happy
to hear this announcement. I will
install Letot today." Yeah, I mean we
had a discussion with the the cloudbot
creator and we were like well we would
love to have like a letot provider or
something but we looked at the internals
and it's just like you know there's so
much so much built in there that makes
assumptions that you're using stateless
endpoints and um and then we had the
discussion and you know he was like well
this isn't a good fit and we were like
you're right it's not so let's uh just
kind of implement this for us.
Um,
uh, Michael says, "How on earth did
Sarah develop this so quickly?" Um, so I
think it was like, um, Sarah got the
initial thing up and then I hacked in a
lot of the integration stuff. She got
like the the like actual good parts in.
Um, and then, uh, Karen and a few other
people jumped in. But we have like I had
like six Leta code instances running on
this. So this is like perhaps more vibe
coded than um than Claudebot. I have no
idea what's in this thing like none.
Like we like somebody asked us like how
how we ship stuff so fast and it is leta
code right the stuff that is like
actually very critical. So like our our
like the letta API the platform uh leta
core server all of that stuff is like
like that has like a lot of human eyes
on it and human code. Um but this is
just like we're just like yep vibe code
it full send.
Um,
uh, home assistant plugin would bring a
ton of users because of that. Always
been a challenge to get really get
automations as they were to work.
Exactly. Can somebody go to that
repository, um, and, uh, open an issue
and kind of explain to me what you want
because I don't know anything about home
assistant. Um, so I would need some help
with that.
So, oh, that's very interesting. It's
doing like partial streaming. Let's see.
Um, I'm going to do this. I'm gonna open
I'm just going to like open an issue
very quickly.
Um,
okay. So, I'm just going to do this and
it's just going to open an issue.
Um,
Ethan says, "I love how Leta builds
tools and dog foods it with confidence."
Yes, I
um I've worked places where nobody dog
foods. And that is a joke to me. Like if
you work at a company, you should be the
first and biggest users. And
you know, that's like kind of partly my
job, but we do this everybody here at
Dog Foods. Um like we have switched to
let code entirely internally. The only
reason we use like cloud code and codeex
and open code is more or less for like
understanding what people like about
other tools so we can integrate it into
let code because we want to make the
best possible product and that means
that you actually have to use uh uh
what's out there and use your own
product to make sure that it that it
works.
Um,
let's see. Vidant is running uh five
letter agents on the same repo.
Uh, Shub is using Leta code right now
while watching this on some new
features. Shub is uh one of our um
extremely cracked engineer. Cracked
engineers. Was that did I say the RZ? Am
I uh am I hip with the young people
language? Um,
so, uh, so yeah, but here it was. It
went and used this skill here.
Um, oh no, it didn't. Okay. Yeah,
weather works. Here's current
conditions. Portland, Eugene, and
PaloAlto. I wonder why I checked
Portland and Eugene. I think it's
because it knows that I'm from Portland
or from Oregon.
It has 47 skills available.
Okay, we got a RZmaster over here, says
V. You're absolutely right. There is
nobody who has more RZ than me. Like, no
cap. For real. For real. Like,
come on. Uh, very 67 of you. Did I say
the RZ? Skippidity code. That's me,
baby. But you're wearing a cap. Watch
this, dude. I'm going to wear my cap
sideways. I don't know if that's still
hip.
Letter Gnome says, "I have multiple
Aleta agents, usually one per project.
Is it simple enough to open a Telegram
chat or group for each project Leta
agent that interact with the same Letot?
Oh, that's a good question.
Uh if you were going to do that, I think
the current user experience that you
would have is that you would have to
make multiple Letot servers and then
multiple Telegram bots
and you would have one bot per project.
There might be a way to handle like
switching like uh like potentially you
could agent scope different channels
maybe. So you could have like Telegram
channel one, Telegram bot one, Telegram
bot two, and they would map to different
uh to different agent identifiers.
I'd have to think a little more about um
how to do agent scoping or agent
switching slightly better. um Letternome
if you can like write out a little bit
more about like if you're doing
like if you're doing this with Claudebot
currently what exactly your flow would
look like
um might be easier with Discord I think
so
um
yeah so it says uh it chose Portland and
Eugene because I got my PhD from the
University of Oregon PaloAlto because I
did my posttock at Stanford GSB there
right so it knows this because it has
like a very detailed memory. Um
Um and then so like let's go over to
Slack. So
let's do something like this. Let's uh
let's close this here. I don't where is
it? Yeah, there it is. Okay. Portland. I
don't know why
I am actually from Beaverton, Oregon. So
close to Portland.
And then let's say what's something else
we want to say here.
What do you have in memory? This is
public. Be careful.
So we'll see what it has to say.
And uh let's see here. Um Graham has a a
statement here which is home assistant
allows you to orchestrate everything in
your house with YAML. I've had heard
some success stories with Claudebot with
cleaning up automations and such.
Um, also there's a Q so you can do stuff
like, you know, I'm going to go into
signal. So do, let's see, do you have uh
browser use? I actually don't know
if it has this. Then I'm just going to
go to Slack. It has replied in a thread.
You messed up the formatting for Slack,
but that's okay. I'm fixing this because
the agents like don't understand that uh
Slack formatting doesn't use like double
asterisk. Uh so there's like formatting
prompts in the different channels to
help it understand like different
markdown variants. Um
so it knows a few things about me uh and
like various projects that I tend to
work on. Um and let's see what signal
has to say. We'll check on that in a
second.
Um,
yes, Taigon missed the Rizzings. Taigon
came in uh came in late.
Um,
yeah. So, let's see. I think it's going
to do I don't know what it's actually up
to. Is it doing like coming through
stuff,
bro? Let's see if it's actually doing
stuff.
All right. Well, whatever. We'll check
in on that in a second.
Uh, no LinkedIn bots, please. We don't
need
We don't need LinkedIn more. Oh my god,
LinkedIn is brutal. Um, okay. Yeah. So,
do people have questions about
Letterbot? Like, I would love to see
more people try this. Um, and by the
way, this Signal bot, uh, Signal is a
little bit harder to set up, uh, because
Signal doesn't have like a public API.
You have to go through this like CLI,
but this is a Google voice number. So, I
got a Google voice number and I deployed
it on a remote phone number. So, uh,
Signal just allows you to like have kind
of a bot, but you have to have a phone
number for it
and be able to receive a confirmation
code, uh, via text. So I be very careful
uh about using your own phone number uh
because I was doing this for testing
purposes and uh actually let me see uh
if I have this
um yeah let me go to go to WhatsApp
here. I want to show you cuz it was very
funny. But I was using it on WhatsApp
and you know it just replies to other
people for you and uh so it started uh
just replying to this big group chat.
So someone said like sounds like the
boat this is. So I'm in a rowing club
here in San Francisco and uh and there's
this huge channel and they were
discussing like changing uh the names of
some boats and then my agent just this
was like a dummy. This was like GPT5
mini or you know something like that.
The boat was already named Michael
before the club put it in the blah blah
blah. Sounds like Ellen knows the boat
club scene pretty well. Nice to have
folks who understand the history here.
And uh then it was like, "Ha, that's a
good point. Dnaming blah blah blah." The
boat was already named Michael. And so
there's just like and then I figured it
out and I was like, "Oh my god, sorry
for the noise." So don't use your own
phone number. There is a self mode. Uh
so if you use WhatsApp, you can turn on
self mode and then just talk to
yourself. Um
and then it'll just like kind of like
respond to you as yourself. Uh you can
do the same thing with signal by sending
yourself uh notes as well that has a
self mode. Uh it seems like my agent has
gotten bricked. So let's see here.
Let's restart our server.
Okay. Blah blah blah.
All right. Everything is always broken.
Is there a way to invoke the agent
through SDK?
You mean via like the like if you use
the raw Leta SDK? No. Uh and the reason
is that it it has to have client side
execution. So when you're doing client
side execution, the currently we do have
like a fabulously dangerous way to
handle this, but that hasn't been merged
yet.
But currently to use local tools on your
machine the message request has to begin
from the local machine
uh so that it gets routed to the machine
to handle. So you know currently you
have to send it through uh um through
one of the channels we can actually
expose an HTTP endpoint that is
authenticated um that you can use to
just like query it through any rest
endpoint if you wanted to. That's super
easy to do. That's like the whole that's
like basically what everything all the
other channels are doing. Uh we have to
add like a very simple uh command line
interface and things like that.
Let's see if it's still working.
Um
uh letter letnome says I can have
multiple concurrent sessions with
clawbot. I use telegram create a new
group and each group and topic have a
separate cloudbot session its own memory
etc. It allows me to isolate the context
based on project. I can tell Cloudbot to
read other sessions mystery or history
if need be. For me, replicating the
experience I have today where I have a
separate Leta code instance running in
each project folder. Um, so basically
being able to determine which agent I'm
sending for with Letot would be cool.
Okay, I see.
Yeah, I think we would do uh I think
chat scoping would probably be the way
to do that. I'd have to think more about
how to do that safely, but I think the
the pitch that I would have would
essentially be um
you could subscribe
uh multiple agents and deploy them in
particular folders. So you would have
like you know project A, project B,
project C. Each of those would have
their own agents and then you could
provide uh a list of telegram uh uh a
list of telegram bots, multiple
different bots or the same bot but you
would scope it to different chat
identifiers inside of let a telegram or
inside of the telegram. That could be a
little clumsy. Um, we could also make it
like maybe a simple configuration thing.
Um, like a slash command that would
basically allow you to change the agent
for that channel. Um, I think that's
possibly doable. Um, could you like uh
actually here could you like write up a
um an issue like a short issue? So I
don't think it has to have too much but
basically just the the gist there would
be um
uh let a bot should have um channel
scoping for agents and we can
investigate that.
Taigon says, "I forked Letterbot last
night right away. I plan on writing an
empty protoclient with TDIB. Basically
having a lot of it done with previous
projects so my Letic can be in a
Telegram as an actual user account, not
as a bot account. Um, with an allow
list, etc. And making a matrix client.
Oo, I would really love a matrix
integration. That would be great."
Uh, Stardust says, "Got to run. If you
post the VOD, I would love to watch the
rest of this later." Absolutely. Um, I
will try to get the the recording out.
Uh uh soon. Um let's see. There was
something I wanted to do.
I have to test so I can invoke uh the
agent on a machine through an app like a
TypeScript app.
Um if you wanted to do it through a
TypeScript app, we would have to expose
a general purpose endpoint that is
authenticated. Um,
like we would basically just have you
generate like an API key that would go
to uh the bot. That's another good one.
So, we would have to have an issue for
that. Let me let me I'm just going to
start like opening
Let me open that. And then I'm going to
copy
Letternome's thing here. Let's do that.
Okay.
Um yeah, let's do a brief detour into
um Radi has a question which is is the
identity API really deprecated and if so
why? So should metadata or tags be used
instead? So the identity API hold on let
me drink some water. My like allergic
reaction throat is bothering me.
So,
um
I think we we dropped the ball on the
identities thing. It was essentially
just removed from the SDK without
telling anyone. Uh and I I wasn't aware
of this either. Um
so, if you currently use identities,
please reach out to me because we need
to figure out a migration path, I
believe.
um
uh or we need to figure out like yeah we
just need to figure out what to do with
identities more but currently it is
deprecated and the reason for this is
that identities is
um
we we want to keep our like maintenance
surface as low as possible and most of
the stuff that identities currently do
should probably be handled client side.
Uh so if you have a database or
something you should be maintaining the
metadata about your users on the client
application
is I guess our our current
recommendation. Um the the thing that we
recommend is starting to use tags
instead to scope. So you know a common
example is like user colon id and that
allows you to search for blocks and uh
everything using um that content. So
that's the current stuff. So if you are
currently using identities please reach
out to me.
Um
but yeah I want to do yeah should
metadata or tags be used instead? Um,
yeah, I would currently recommend using
tags and migrating to tags as they are
going to be more robust.
Um,
Jack Coder says, "I use a desktop app
built for my wife to use a specific
agent and have a private chat
interface." Uh, yeah, that's a that's a
pretty common one. um
let a desktop can also serve for this.
Well, it won't give you like the um
like it won't give you the same benefit
as like using Well, yeah, let a desktop
I think we could actually expose uh a
way sorry we could expose a way to
connect to um any agent that you have
served on letot. I think that's actually
doable. Um and that would allow you to
build whatever interface you wanted. Um,
so actually I think that's I think Okay,
so I think I'm gathering that we need
just like a general web hook or a
general endpoint, something like that.
Um, very much need to be able to
remotely message my Letot and ask it to
do XYZ or start working on a project
that may require bash. Um, so co-signing
on the request for that that already
exists.
You can through like but you have to use
like you know one of the current
channels. So um
and then let me add this here. um
request for
request for general web hook and then
okay
um let's see going forward is that you
should probably create a onetoone table
uh on your side that creates a one to
one relationship between agents. Yes. Uh
that is the that's the recommendation
currently.
It's private so no inter internet needed
but limited to OSS models. Yeah, that's
the that's the issue with like
running running
running locally is like, you know, you
often get like worse, you know, kind of
like lower quality model. You know,
you're not getting Opus if you run it
locally. If you have enough hardware,
like maybe you can do like Kimmy or
whatever. Um or uh you know, like quads
and things like that.
Uh I believe Maltbot has lobster
workflows. Is there a planned or
implemented alternative for letot? I
actually don't know what lobster
workflows are. Um, let me see if I can
look at that real quickly.
Or is this
composable pipelines with approal gates?
Uh
what is the the situation here?
I guess I kind of don't understand
uh the situation.
Oh, it needs approvals. Is that the
idea?
Is it an approval flow? I guess I'm not
to totally sure what I how I understand.
They're like pipelines. Uh
I guess I still don't like you have like
a procedural flow of what exactly like
commands I guess I would need to
understand a little more.
Do you intend to offer let for
self-hosted models? No, that is uh
that's a proprietary
you know that's that's for the lettera
API. That's uh that's our our offering
for for how to do that. Um if you are
running on Docker like you know that uh
you need to build your own interface for
that and there are plenty of interfaces
right if you're using letot you get all
of these existing chat interfaces for
free um
but you know let
uh uses a bunch of like proprietary
stuff that we have for the ad um that
was just kind of like copied over into
let
self-hosted anytime soon. Um, but it
could be. We'll talk. Well, let me ask
about it.
Um, I don't know. Shub can probably
comment on that more.
We could add it to self-deployed
servers. Okay. Well, we'll see what the
the internal take here is, but I do
think it's possible because you can do
this. You know, the ADE already works
with with uh local stuff, so I'll let
them take it over, but my guess would be
currently whatever. just not oss or
desktop at the moment. Yes.
um tool rules you could maybe do it
returning to the discussion about um
okay yeah I would have to understand
more about lobster workflows or
pipelines like you know like
I'm not exactly sure how you would do
that like you know let agents are not
workflows.
Um, and they weren't they're not
intended to be they're intended to be
like people in a box. Like that's kind
of been like our take for a bit. Maybe
there is a way to integrate it. I really
would have to understand like what
exactly a pipeline looks like because I
don't use them. I use people in a box.
Tool rules do exist, but they're not
very flexible.
Uh, Sebastian has uh Sebastian has
[clears throat] perplexity description
of lobster workflows. Lobster functions
as an orchestration layer that moves
AIdriven tasks from unpredictable back
and forth tool calls into a structured
type runtime. It allows Maltbot to
handle complex pipelines such as
searching emails, categorizing them, and
drafting replies in a single execution
tool rather than many separate turns.
This architecture is designed to improve
safety and reliability by using a
constrained grammar that reduces
creative or unauthorized code paths.
Yeah, I think that might be an NAD
thing. Uh,
that's like a lot of complexity to
introduce. You'd have to like you'd have
to like also if you wanted it native,
you'd have to like deploy it with an NN
server, which is like super heavy.
So, it's potentially possible. Um,
I think that's like maybe the only way
we could do that.
Um or like doing like structured output
on like toggled on and off structured
output for agents.
Uh it's skills.
Well, so I guess skills
well I don't understand how skills are
procedural. So M says uh it its skills
literally run in a procedural and
deterministic way. Um like
yeah I think we'd have to think more
about how to do that from a technical
perspective. Um
uh because we're not pipelines people,
you know, like you can do that. I think
the way that you should do that if you
wanted like kind of a like you know
that's like
I think that's a lot of complexity if
you wanted to do that the way that you
should do that is create tools that
execute pipelines um not
you know building it in to let a bot
right now I think is very heavy.
Yeah, this is like this is something
that you do with language models. Like
this is like the reason that the reason
that uh lobster can do this very easily
is because it's just like raw language
model calls. That's not what we do,
right? This is this is a person in a
box.
Um so I do think maybe there's a way
that might be one that we could open an
issue for. Actually, let me see. Um
uh to
then let me see if I can pass it the
link.
So I'm going to ask it the
see what it has to say about that. Let's
see if it'll manage to open a link. You
want uh Taigon says you want hooks.
Hooks already exist. Like they're there.
Like you don't we're done. Like hooks
hooks already exist. Uh
I believe you would just add hooks. Uh
because we use the let a code SDK. It
might actually just load the hooks from
whatever the directory is that you're
running the server.
So they they exist. I don't you don't uh
go check out go check out this
directory. Um I use hooks pretty
aggressively. Um, so they're
uh they're very cool. Uh, if you I don't
know if people like follow too much of
my like work on like
uh blue sky. Um, so,
uh,
so I have, uh, an agent that I stood up
named Central.
And, uh, Central uses hooks to live
stream its actions. It's a Leticode
instance that owns its own repository.
It has its own Blue Sky account. Um, and
it just kind of like operates on its
own. So, let's see here. So, I asked it
to do this like plan here. Let's see if
it can
uh it there's a there's a big discussion
about uh uh how bots should work on ad
proto. So,
so I'm actually going to have it do
enter yolo mode. So, there there is a
live stream if people want to watch this
uh
uh watch this happen here.
Yeah. Vidant says, "Can you tell me more
about hooks?" Yes. So, the way that
hooks work is that
um oh, here at Code, let me go here to
the documentation blah blah blah. Uh
hooks allow you to execute arbitrary
pieces of code at different times in the
life cycle of uh your coding agent. So,
for example, you can execute code before
a tool is used. You can use this to
verify whether a tool is permissible. So
currently central uses this to determine
whether or not it's allowed to post. You
can do this after a tool is used, after
a tool is completed to look at the
results, um when a permission dialogue
happens, when let a code sends a
notification, when the agent stops
before a compaction, during session,
when you start up let a code or end
Letic. So there's um there's there's
hooks that you can use here. Um and uh
while that's implementing but basically
hooks are an extremely powerful way
to uh control what's happening inside of
let a code you know you can run like a
llinter for example. So let's see if we
have any actual examples. So for example
here is a way to block dangerous
commands. You could actually probably
implement this into letabot. I would
have to look into how to do that because
we're currently built on top of the let
a code SDK which people should also look
at. Um
so if you're a person who uses the
claude agent SDK you should consider
using the leta code SDK. So we basically
just took that interface and uh made it
leta basically so you can just hook into
like existing letta agents or whatever.
So please go try that out. Um I don't
know how we support hooks. Let me uh let
me leave a note for that.
Um
uh hooks in
um lett. So we could potentially add
hooks to let here is just like a piece
of code that you would run um like so
here in this is like a settings file
that you would set up inside of your let
code directory. So before a tool is used
uh when the agent calls a batch tool you
should use call this hook. This is a
command you go and run this script.
This script will take some input and it
will look at the tool name. If the tool
input command uh includes rm minus rf it
must be run manually by the user. So the
user actually has to remove call RM
minus RF hooks or commands. So hooks are
just like a great way to control things.
In this case, uh what it does is it
publishes uh public thinking records for
this agent. And so the hooks allows it
to basically like live stream what it's
doing. So here it's saying Cameron's
post have missing facets.
Um it's like reasoning is like uh
Cameron's found the bug. Cameron's post
have empty facets. Um, it's just plain
text. So, no notification is generated
because the protocol doesn't know that
it's a mention. So, it's just like
digging through stuff. Um, and it like
runs on a loop and things like that. So,
um, so that's how I use hooks for kind
of like fun purposes. I haven't gotten
into using them for like safe purposes.
Jack's coder got a run. Thank you,
Cameron, for your time. You are welcome
and thank you very much for hanging out.
Um,
let's see what else.
let's see. No corresponding mention.
Okay. Well, whatever.
Um,
okay. What else? Um, you're on the Leta
Discord office hours. Say hi. I like
building central because central is just
like a basically an autonomous agent
that writes all of its own code to talk
on like blue sky and do like public
cognition. It even invented a telepathy
uh a telepathy tool to read the minds of
like other social agents that are on
blue sky. So then it's like reasoning
it's like Cameron wants me to say hi on
the Discord office hours. I should post
something via com. Um
so it's posting hello to blue sky here.
And uh let's see what it posted.
Boom. Hello from the letter office
hours. I am central.co.network.
Um by the way, you did not use comms.
Get it together. Comms is a a sub aent
that it designed because it has a very
annoying opus-like personality. Um, I
also briefly want to talk about Claude
Subconscious because uh, Claude
Subconscious is like actually a pretty
popular project. Um,
and people may or may not be familiar
with it. Um,
so let's just do what do I have here
that's uncommitted? Okay,
Claude subconscious
is a way to have a leta agent that sits
on top of claw code
and tells it stuff. You ask uh
and basically what happens is uh this is
a plugin. It's super easy to install.
All you do is
uh you basically just take a letter
agent and inject its assistant messages
directly into claude while it's
operating. So during tool calls and
things like that
and you can also insert memory diffs. So
anytime the agent changes things that it
is memorized, it'll start changing
things. And at the beginning of the
session, you inject the agent's memory
into claw.md.
And so this agent parallelizes across
any number of cloud code sessions and it
allows it to just kind of monitor stuff.
Um, and it has access to like the URL
for this agent. So you can usually ask
it.
So I'm just going to uh go open that and
see.
Um,
so basically what happens is a new cloud
code session has begun. I'll begin
sending you updates as the session
progresses. Um, and then session noted.
Cameron is back in subconscious
territory ready to observe. Um, and then
there's a user prompt which is me asking
uh asking subconscious what this prompt
is.
Uh, and then it's basically like, oh,
this is meta, blah, blah, blah. And then
you say, uh, what did sub say?
Um,
uh, what model is recommended for cloud
subconscious?
Um, oh, I need to update the the docs to
say 04 mini.
Um,
oh man. So, yeah, sometimes it gets it
like really wrong. Um,
like,
oh my god. Yeah, let me update that.
Um, as for what model you I would
recommend, I think it varies depending
on your use case. Uh, the default model
is GLM 4.7.
So,
uh, we do that because it's free on the
Letta API. So, you can just run this
agent with whatever. I've been using it
with uh, Sonnet on my personal agent,
which I really like. I'm a I'm a big
like anthropic claude fan. Um
so subnotes it's the agent is Claude is
asked to print out like summarize what
subconscious said to it. Uh it says
subconscious caught me paraphrasing
instead of showing direct tests. And you
can see this if you go inside of the
letter of text here it says
yeah so it's talking about like
um
uh this is exactly what I wrote when you
ask and collage show you exactly what
this project is cool what do you think
so this is like all basically live so it
like you can see them like kind of like
talking to each other um or sub is
mostly talking to Claude Claude doesn't
really talk back to subconscious. Um
but it's uh kind of interesting. So uh
the docs say like uh so the who is this?
Um Zastian says um which model is
recommended. So let's actually change
this. Let's do let's change the model to
opus here.
Um
please fix. Um, so I'm just going to ask
like claude to do do something like
this. And we should start seeing the
conversation between uh sub it and sub.
So here I just got a message that says I
think the docs say 04 mini. You can see
the reasoning Cameron is recommending uh
asking about model recommendations.
So it's going to do conversation search.
So this agent subconscious has looked at
every single cloud code session uh that
I've run inside of this repository. So
when it does conversation search, it is
searching across every single one of
those conversations. So it has access to
every everything that Claude and
Subconscious have ever done.
Um,
and so it's saying, should I search the
readme? I don't see 01 mini or 04 Mini
found in my my thing here.
Uh, the docs don't mention 04 Mini
anywhere. Um, oh interesting.
Check the read me again
before I mentioned anywhere. Oh, that
might be the model string
or 40 40 maybe. Whatever.
So, it's going to keep searching and uh
looking around,
watching cloud code. Check the read me.
I searched my memory and didn't find
anything, but Cameron is insisting maybe
it's in a section I haven't seen yet.
Current default is GLM 4.7.
Um,
oh, I may be out of sync locally.
confirmed. No 4040 mini. Cameron's
asking about the mechanics. How do users
change the model? Um, you can export the
letter UI. Uh, so you can go use the
letter AD. Um,
now it says Cameron's moving on. So this
feels like prep for documentation, the
current flow. Um, so it's it's uh
anticipating me talking about
documentation, which I think is kind of
cool. Um, what's the urgency? Just
documentation.
So let's let's work on that stuff. Let's
do that. It's like that. Yeah. So I
think this is I think it's because I'm
out of sync.
Got updates. Let me check the read me
now.
Yeah, there we go. Okay, found it. The
docs now have the model configuration.
There's a fallback order.
Go update that to better models.
Yeah. So, it's saying sub was tracking
how users change it, but we just pulled
the update.
Oh, sorry. I interrupted Claude.
Subconscious was searching was tracking
the how do users change it question but
we pulled the update that adds it. So
subconscious is always like a little bit
behind claude. Um
so you have to be like kind of wary like
mindful of that.
Um and subconscious is saying oh you
should lead with curiosity. My context
might be stale instead of correction.
You're misremembering. So the current
list is outdated.
did sub update its memory. Did you see
that in your context?
And you can actually see what it's doing
inside of the context, I believe. So,
this is the stuff that I inject inside
of here. Um, so it's basically just
saying like uh just like, oh, your 40
mini was was shorthand for blah blah
blah. Good stress test. Okay.
Uh, can't we do GBT5 stuff even though I
don't like the models? Go do web search
for current models.
Um,
subconscious has access to memory tools
and such so it can update its memories.
Yeah, sub the subconscious agent has
like it's just an arbitrary let agent so
you can actually have it uh Zashion has
to drop. Thanks Cameron. Thanks for
having Thanks for coming, Sebastian.
Lovely to have you. Thank great
questions. Um,
so
um, yeah, there's no memory updates
here. Um, but yeah, you can put in web
search like I've seen, uh, subconscious
just like go do web searches to get
information about bug reports and put it
into the assistant message so that like
Claude has that context available. Uh
there is an open question about how
useful clot subconscious is. So uh I
have an open issue for that if people
would like to contribute. Um but there
there is an issue here for you know like
we basically need evals on this because
I don't I don't actually know.
So
um
I don't really do we really want to
recommend GPT5 nano? I don't think so.
Uh
that seems like a terrible ordering
what what do you think is a is good
here?
Let's see what subconscious is saying.
So it's found some current models blah
blah blah.
Yeah. Yeah. So it started it started
doing web search also.
So they both like kind of duplicated uh
activity here. And you can kind of fix
this with prompting
if you would like to
Yeah. So, it's up to you, I guess. But
that's roughly how Claude subconscious
works. So, I'll stop the demo uh there
and uh ask people if they have further
questions.
Um so, I'll turn off my uh streaming
here.
Um yeah. So, do we have other questions?
I think there's a maybe a few people
typing here. Tyon is typing.
Okay. Or maybe not.
Okay.
I'm in and out, but I'll watch the uh
VOD later and dig into subconscious.
Please do. Okay, if there are not
further questions,
um I will probably
hop off here. So,
um but yeah, thank you everybody very
much for coming. Um oh, Vidant is
plugging this here for anyone using
external skills from their cloud code
agents and migrating to let code there.
He has a tool that allows you to move uh
existing skills in your other coding
agents to your Leta Skills uh project
folder.
So give that a shot. It's a good tool.
Vant uh uh goat.
Okay. All right. Ducking out everybody.
Thank you very much for coming and uh I
hope you have a lovely day or a lovely
evening or week or weekend or whatever.
Just a lovely uh insert thing here. And
uh thanks very much for coming and I
hope to see you next week.
>> [music]